README.md, before:

<div align='center'>
    <a href="https://imgbb.com/"><img src="https://i.ibb.co/KyRp80C/springboard-logo.jpg" alt="springboard-logo" border="0" height='80'></a>
</div>


![CI/CD Pipeline](https://github.com/MohanKrishnaGR/Infosys_Text-Summarization/actions/workflows/deploy.yml/badge.svg)

![Docker Image Version](https://img.shields.io/docker/v/mohankrishnagr/infosys_text-summarization)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/mohankrishnagr/infosys_text-summarization)
![Docker Image Size](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/mohankrishnagr/infosys_text-summarization/final)

# Infosy_Text-Summarization
A project by AI/ML Intern @ Infosys Springboard, Summer 2024.

## Data Collection
Merged selective dataset from 
- CNN, Daily Mail : News, 
- BillSum: Legal, 
- ArXiv : Scientific,
- Dialoguesum : Conversations.

Robust, multi-objective data.
 
## Models

## Method 1
### -> Native PyTorch
### Model Training

Implemented in model.ipynb .
Retraining the pre-trained transformer model with our derived dataset. Native pytorch method is utilized, rather than using training pipeline API, to get more control of model training and its parameters.

Outlay:
- Setup & initialization
- training loop
- Evaluation loop

Training loss = 1.3280

saved_model - file structure:

```

└── fine_tuned_bart

    ├── config.json

    ├── generation_config.json

    ├── merges.txt

    ├── model.safetensors

    ├── special_tokens_map.json

    ├── tokenizer_config copy.json

    ├── tokenizer_config.json

    └── vocab.json
```
 
### Model Validation (Custom)

Implemented in src/evaluation.ipynb .
Performance metrics - ROUGE (Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation) is best suited to evaluate the model's performance for 'Text Summarizer'.

Aimed to implement a custom evaluation function that calculate ROGUE based on model's inference.

Even though the model has very minimal training loss but, the model performed inconsistenly in validation & testing phase. There's a suspected tensor error while training using method 1, which could be attributed to the inconsistency of the model's output. 

## Method 2
### -> Trainer Method
### Model Training
Implemented in src/bart.ipynb .
A function was implemented for the dataset, to convert text data into model inputs and targets. Trainer class from transformer package was utilized for training and evaluation. Tainer is a simple but feature-complete training and eval loop for PyTorch, optimized for transformers.

The model was trained with whole dataset for 10 epochs for 26:24:22 (HH:MM:SS) in 125420 steps.

Training Loss = 0.174700

### Model Validation
Implemented in src/rouge.ipynb .
ROUGE score is again used as the performance metric for model evaluation.

Intresting, this model is quite robust in consistent performance with the Rogue1 score as 61.3224, which is a benchmark standard.

## Model Selection for deployment
Considered the performance metrics of the models trained by the forementioned methods.

After the due analysis, the model trained using 'Method 2' was selected.

## Model Deployment
### Testing Interface
Gradio - an open-source Python package that allows us to quickly build a demo - web-application for the trained models.
For the initial phase after model validation, the 'gradio' library is best suited for our objective.

Implemented in src/interface.ipynb .

### Deployment (Ongoing)
Ultilized FastAPI for backend development, fined tunned transformers (summarizer/saved_model) for text summarization, and Docker for deployment for a robust and scalable text summarization application capable of handling various input sources and generating concise summaries efficiently.

Implmented extractor modules to handles various input sources (URL, pdf, docx, txt)

To use the docker image run:
```
docker pull mohankrishnagr/infosys_text-summarization:final
docker run -p 8000:8000 mohankrishnagr/infosys_text-summarization:final
```
Then checkout at,
```
http://localhost:8000/
```
### Deployed in AWS EC2
Public IP:
```
http://54.168.82.95/
```
## Extractive Summarization Model 
Implemented rule-based approach.

Commit message:

Updated with Azure Container Instance

README.md, after:

<div align='center'>
    <a href="https://imgbb.com/"><img src="https://i.ibb.co/KyRp80C/springboard-logo.jpg" alt="springboard-logo" border="0" height='80'></a>
</div>


![CI/CD Pipeline](https://github.com/MohanKrishnaGR/Infosys_Text-Summarization/actions/workflows/deploy.yml/badge.svg) [![Deploy to Azure Container Instance](https://github.com/MohanKrishnaGR/Infosys_Text-Summarization/actions/workflows/azure.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/MohanKrishnaGR/Infosys_Text-Summarization/actions/workflows/azure.yml)

![Docker Image Version](https://img.shields.io/docker/v/mohankrishnagr/infosys_text-summarization)
![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/mohankrishnagr/infosys_text-summarization)
![Docker Image Size](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/mohankrishnagr/infosys_text-summarization/final)

# Infosy_Text-Summarization
A project by AI/ML Intern @ Infosys Springboard, Summer 2024.

## Data Collection
Merged selective dataset from 
- CNN, Daily Mail : News, 
- BillSum: Legal, 
- ArXiv : Scientific,
- Dialoguesum : Conversations.

Robust, multi-objective data.
 
## Models

## Method 1
### -> Native PyTorch
### Model Training

Implemented in model.ipynb .
Retraining the pre-trained transformer model with our derived dataset. Native pytorch method is utilized, rather than using training pipeline API, to get more control of model training and its parameters.

Outlay:
- Setup & initialization
- training loop
- Evaluation loop

Training loss = 1.3280

saved_model - file structure:

```

└── fine_tuned_bart

    ├── config.json

    ├── generation_config.json

    ├── merges.txt

    ├── model.safetensors

    ├── special_tokens_map.json

    ├── tokenizer_config copy.json

    ├── tokenizer_config.json

    └── vocab.json
```
 
### Model Validation (Custom)

Implemented in src/evaluation.ipynb .
Performance metrics - ROUGE (Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gisting Evaluation) is best suited to evaluate the model's performance for 'Text Summarizer'.

Aimed to implement a custom evaluation function that calculate ROGUE based on model's inference.

Even though the model has very minimal training loss but, the model performed inconsistenly in validation & testing phase. There's a suspected tensor error while training using method 1, which could be attributed to the inconsistency of the model's output. 

## Method 2
### -> Trainer Method
### Model Training
Implemented in src/bart.ipynb .
A function was implemented for the dataset, to convert text data into model inputs and targets. Trainer class from transformer package was utilized for training and evaluation. Tainer is a simple but feature-complete training and eval loop for PyTorch, optimized for transformers.

The model was trained with whole dataset for 10 epochs for 26:24:22 (HH:MM:SS) in 125420 steps.

Training Loss = 0.174700

### Model Validation
Implemented in src/rouge.ipynb .
ROUGE score is again used as the performance metric for model evaluation.

Intresting, this model is quite robust in consistent performance with the Rogue1 score as 61.3224, which is a benchmark standard.

## Model Selection for deployment
Considered the performance metrics of the models trained by the forementioned methods.

After the due analysis, the model trained using 'Method 2' was selected.

## Model Deployment
### Testing Interface
Gradio - an open-source Python package that allows us to quickly build a demo - web-application for the trained models.
For the initial phase after model validation, the 'gradio' library is best suited for our objective.

Implemented in src/interface.ipynb .

### Deployment (Ongoing)
Ultilized FastAPI for backend development, fined tunned transformers (summarizer/saved_model) for text summarization, and Docker for deployment for a robust and scalable text summarization application capable of handling various input sources and generating concise summaries efficiently.

Implmented extractor modules to handles various input sources (URL, pdf, docx, txt)

To use the docker image run:
```
docker pull mohankrishnagr/infosys_text-summarization:final
docker run -p 8000:8000 mohankrishnagr/infosys_text-summarization:final
```
Then checkout at,
```
http://localhost:8000/
```
### Deployed in AWS EC2
Public IP:
```
http://54.168.82.95/
```

### Deployed in Azure Container Instance
Public IP:
```
http://20.219.203.134:8000/
```
## Extractive Summarization Model 
Implemented rule-based approach.
